h1. A Debian(Jessie)-based mediawiki Docker container

h2. Setup

Create directories for configuration and images (if you want to enable uploads)
and make the images directory writable for the nginx image, e.g. like this:

    mkdir /srv/mediawiki/config /srv/mediawiki/images
    chown www-data /srv/mediawiki/images

In the dockerfile I specified some extension I use for wiki.elexis.info.

h2. Running mediawiki

Run the image like this:

    docker run -d -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME=test_wiki -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER=test_wiki_user \
      -e MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD=very-secure -v /srv/test_wiki/config:/srv/mediawiki/config \
      -v /srv/test_wiki/images:/srv/mediawiki/images --link=hopeful_mclean:mysql
      -p 8080:80 fqxp/mediawiki

This will start a web server on the server port 8080 which is accessible via the
URL `http://localhost:8080`.

To install the database tables and create `LocalSettings.php`, configure
MediaWiki at `http://localhost:8080/mw-config/index.php`

Page URLs will have the form `http://localhost:8080/w/Page_Name`.

h3. Environment variables

These are the environment variables needed to run mediawiki:

- `MEDIAWIKI_DB_NAME`: MySQL database name to use
- `MEDIAWIKI_DB_USER`: MySQL username to use
- `MEDIAWIKI_DB_PASSWORD`: MySQL user password

h3. Install a dump

To unzip a dump run in the docker container (.eg. @docker -it name /bin/bash@) and execute their the command:

bc.
bunzip2 --stdout /srv/mediawiki/config/mysql_wiki_dump_20150905-073654.sql.bz2 | mysql -u elexis -h mysql elexis_wiki

h3. Thanks

Thanks to Frank Ploss. I could use many ideas from his project under https://github.com/fqxp/dockerfiles/tree/master/mediawiki